% Copyright (C) 1996-2024 The Octave Project Developers
%
% This file is part of Octave.
%
% Octave is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
% under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
% the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
% (at your option) any later version.
%
% Octave is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
% WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
% MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
% GNU General Public License for more details.
%
% You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
% along with Octave; see the file COPYING.  If not, see
% <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

\input texinfo
@c Octave Control - Control Package for GNU octave.

@c Important note: When inserting tex-code while doing changes please
@c only use the latex macros
@c @tex, @iftex, @ifnottex
@c together with the corresponding @end ... commands instead of the 
@c tex macros. This is due to some advanced latex code in the control
@c texinfo help texts.

@c %*** Start of HEADER
@documentencoding UTF-8
@setfilename control.info
@settitle Octave control - Control Package for GNU Octave
@afourpaper
@paragraphindent 0
@finalout
@setchapternewpage on
@headings off
@c @afourwide
@c %*** End of the HEADER

@dircategory Math
@direntry
* Octave Control: (control).          Control Package for Octave
@end direntry

@include version.texi
@include macros.texi

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------

@iftex

@c %*** Start of TITLEPAGE
@titlepage
@title control @value{VERSION}
@subtitle Control System Design Tools for GNU Octave
@subtitle @value{DATE}
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2009-2025, Octave Developers
@end titlepage

@contents

@end iftex

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Octave Control Package
Copyright © The Octave Project Developers 

This manual is generated automatically from the texinfo help strings
of the package's functions.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the same conditions as for modified versions.

@end ifnottex

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Overview
@chapter Overview
@cindex Overview

@everyheading GNU Octave Control Pakcage -- @thischapter @| @| @thispage

@section General information

The current @acronym{GNU} Octave control package is based on the
work of Lukas F. Reichlin (versions 2 up to 3.0) with major
contributions by Thomas Vasileiou. Version 2 of the control package
was intended as a replacement of the previous control-1.0.11 by
A. Scottedward Hodel and his students. From version 2 onwards the
control package is based on the proven open-source library @acronym{SLICOT}.

Its main features are:
@itemize
@item Reliable solvers for Lyapunov, Sylvester and algebraic Riccati equations.
@item Pole placement techniques as well as
@iftex
@tex
$ H_2 $
@end tex
@end iftex
@ifnottex
H2
@end ifnottex
and
@iftex
@tex
$ H_{\infty} $
@end tex
@end iftex
@ifnottex
H-Infinity
@end ifnottex
synthesis methods.
@item Frequency-weighted model and controller reduction.
@item System identification by subspace methods.
@item Overloaded operators due to the use of classes introduced with Octave 3.2.
@item Support for descriptor state-space models and non-proper transfer functions.
@item Support for multiple systems in time- or frequency-domain plots.
@item Improved @acronym{MATLAB} compatibility.
@end itemize

@section Using the help function

Some functions of the control package are listed with the somewhat cryptic prefixes
@code{@@lti/} or @code{@@iddata/}. These prefixes are only needed to view the help
text of the function, e.g. @w{@code{help norm}} shows the built-in function while
@w{@code{help @@lti/norm}} shows the overloaded function for @acronym{LTI} systems.
Note that there are @acronym{LTI} functions like @code{pole} that have no built-in
equivalent. The same is true for @acronym{IDDATA} functions like @code{nkshift}.

When just using the function, the leading @code{@@lti/} must @strong{not} be typed.
Octave selects the right function automatically. So one can type @w{@code{norm (sys, inf)}}
and @w{@code{norm (matrix, inf)}} regardless of the class of the argument.

@section Distribution

The @acronym{GNU} Octave control package is @dfn{free} software.
Free software is a matter of the users' freedom to run, copy, distribute,
study, change and improve the software.
This means that everyone is free to use it and free to redistribute it
on certain conditions.  The @acronym{GNU} Octave control package 
is not, however, in the public domain.  It is copyrighted and there are
restrictions on its distribution, but the restrictions are designed to 
ensure that others will have the same freedom to use and redistribute 
Octave that you have.  The precise conditions can be found in the 
@acronym{GNU} General Public License that comes with the @acronym{GNU}
Octave control package and that also appears in @ref{Copying}.

@section Online documentation

Links to online documentation and license information:

@itemize
@item @url{https://gnu-octave.github.io/pkg-control, Online documentation of the control package for GNU Octave}
@item @url{https://github.com/gnu-octave/pkg-control, Git repository of the control packag}
@item @url{https://github.com/SLICOT/SLICOT-Reference, Git repository of the used SLICOT-Reference library}  
@item @url{https://github.com/SLICOT/SLICOT-Reference/blob/main/LICENSE, License and copyright information of the used SLICOT-Reference library}
@end itemize

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Function Reference
@chapter Function Reference
@cindex Function Reference

@include functions.texi

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------

@include copying.texi

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Function Index
@unnumbered Function Index
@printindex fn

@bye
